Good morning.
Thank you for coming.
It's early.
So we're going to talk about
QuickTime 5 today and we're going to
give you a little bit of a glimpse
into the future for QuickTime.
But before we start that,
I thought it would be only appropriate
to close the chapter on QuickTime 4.
We've been working with
QuickTime 4 for a long time now.
I thought you'd summarize
how things went for us.
The first thing we have to say,
of course,
is thank you to all of you developers,
all of our content partners,
and other partners around the world.
This has been a really big effort and
it's been a fantastic success and it
wouldn't have happened without your
help and support and most importantly
feedback about what we're doing
right and what we're doing wrong.
For QuickTime 4,
we set some fairly basic goals.
We wanted to make streaming a
first-class citizen inside of QuickTime.
We wanted to build a parallel
network with the software to be
able to allow us to distribute
the content around the world.
And we wanted to make sure
that in doing all of this,
we didn't lose all of the traditional
strengths of QuickTime in the areas
that you're all very familiar with.
So how did we do?
At the end of the day,
it turns out we distributed over
150 million copies of the player.
It's really quite a large number.
Somewhat possibly even more interesting
is we distributed over 150,000
copies of the streaming server.
This is, as you know,
the streaming server is a body of
software that we make available
through the Darwin open source program.
And developers can go
up and pull it down.
You create this very
simple licensing agreement.
And we've had over 150,000
people go and do that.
This is a really wild one.
There have been over 8,000 new
products built on top of QuickTime 4.
This is not all QuickTime products.
This is just on top of QuickTime 4
from 5,000 different companies.
And of course,
in the process of doing all of this,
we've seen a large ecosystem of partner
companies develop around QuickTime just
over the last couple of years.
It's really, really fantastic.
QuickTime TV, as you know,
it's our broadcast network.
We've got over 50 channels.
We've got some of the biggest names
in media participating in the program.
And we've also hosted hundreds of
special and live events around the
world over the last couple of years.
Big success.
You may not be aware,
but QuickTime is a very
popular technology for the
enhanced music CD marketplace.
As the record publishers are looking
for ways to promote the CDs over the
songs that are available on the internet,
say, they're looking to things like
enhancing the CDs with videos and so on.
And QuickTime's been by far the most
popular option for enhanced music CD.
We've had some of the biggest names
from some of the best publishers.
In the space of digital cameras,
we've had fantastic success here.
Virtually all of the major
camera manufacturers are
licensing QuickTime today.
And some of them have even gone
so far as to build support for
QuickTime right into the cameras.
It's really remarkable.
And last, of course,
we've got the digital hub.
Apple's been bringing new
products to market built around
the concept of the digital hub.
And QuickTime is at the foundation
of most of these products.
iMovie, Final Cut Pro for video editing,
iDVD, DVD Studio Pro,
more recently iTunes.
And this will continue, I'm sure,
but QuickTime is at the foundation
of Apple's media strategy.
So today I'd like to say
goodbye to QuickTime 4.
It's been a great product,
but it's time to say goodbye.
And it's time to say
hello to QuickTime 5.
So for most of the rest of the
presentation today I'd like to
talk about what's in QuickTime 5.
So far,
we need to talk about how the product's
been doing in the marketplace.
As you probably know,
we introduced QuickTime 5 last fall and
we started a public preview program.
This gives us a chance to do a
broad seeding of the software,
find out what people like,
what they don't like, and of course,
working with all of the developers
to make sure that the software
works in your applications.
We had over 2 million people
participate in the public preview.
Really remarkable.
About a month ago,
at the National Association of
Broadcasters show,
we launched QuickTime 5 officially.
So this was the time at which
the software was officially done.
In the last month,
we've had over 7 million downloads from
just our US servers of QuickTime 5.
So this is going at a really good clip.
Just to give you some
perspective on this,
this is more QuickTime than we
distributed for all of QuickTime 3.
It's one month.
On Monday this week we announced the
availability of the QuickTime streaming
server version 3 that was launched
on Monday and it's available in the
Mac OS X server product version 10.
It's also available through
the Darwin open source project
as I had mentioned earlier.
And you can go up to the website
and obtain the source code for
the streaming server and compile
it for your operating system.
We support all of the
major operating systems.
So that's great.
QuickTime 5 has got a
bucket of new features.
And let's go take a look.
We listened to your feedback about
the player interface and we made
a lot of changes in this release.
We've refined the interface such
that there's sort of a cleaner,
simpler look.
The windows can be more easily managed.
We said goodbye to the channel drawer.
There's some good
feedback we got from you.
We've come up with a whole new mechanism
for managing the favorites and channels,
which we think is a whole lot easier.
We've added some new audio and
video controls that will be good
for consumers to adjust the video
for their personal preferences.
We came up with a simplified
movie info summary panel.
And then we added a feature that will
allow customers who might not know
a lot about QuickTime to find out
about interesting events that are
happening in the QuickTime community.
So this panel is made
available to customers.
What happens is we push movies,
or QuickTime movies,
up to the clients on a regular basis.
And they basically highlight
all the interesting things
that might be going on.
So if you think you've got
interesting content or news that
might be of import to our customers,
you should get in touch with our
marketing group and let them know
about it and maybe you can get your
stuff noticed in the hot picks.
So QuickTime's got support for many,
many different types of media.
We support dozens and
dozens of file formats,
dozens of different formats of data.
Every release of QuickTime,
we work to enhance the media
support that's in there.
And this release is no different.
Cubic VR is a technology that
we introduced a while ago.
It's finally shipping in the product
and it's a really exciting technology.
It provides the capabilities for
photographers to be able to access
and view a much broader range
of content that might have been
available with just the cylindrical
panoramas previously supported.
Now of course,
the Cubic VRs are new and available,
but your cylindrical panoramas
are still available and
everything is still compatible.
If you've written software
to work with VR panoramas,
your software is still going to work.
It's completely compatible
at the API level.
At this time,
I'd like to bring Jim Batson up,
Chief Architect, for QuickTime.
He's going to help me do some demos.
Now, I know that you've all seen
QuickTime VR and Cubic VR before,
but this is exciting stuff for us.
I mean,
when we have an opportunity to engage
with the kind of creative people that
are out there in the world today and
see some of the things they're doing,
it's just sort of impossible not
to want to bring some of this
stuff here and show you today.
So what we have here is we have
a Cubic VR that was produced by
Claudio Batter at Web Identity,
and this is a VR that was shot at the
peak of one of the taller mountains
in Switzerland called Jungfraujoch,
and it's really quite stunning.
It's a very high resolution panorama.
As you can see, you can look down,
and it's not clear that you would
want to look down on this one.
Very cool.
There's a lot of interesting things
going on there and we're seeing
a lot of support from third-party
developers to support the new format,
so I think the content creation challenge
will be well addressed on Cubic VR.
Thanks, Jim.
Let's go back to slides.
OK.
So QuickTime 5 brings a new
music synthesizer to the mix.
QuickTime has had a MIDI-based software
synthesizer built in for several years.
But in light of all the
development that we're doing on
Mac OS X in the area of audio,
we thought it would be appropriate
to bring a whole new version
of the software to the system.
So we went back and rethought the
architecture and completely rewrote
the synthesizer for QuickTime 5.
It's a very advanced
wavetable synthesizer.
It's got lots and lots of features that
you can tweak from your applications.
And it supports all
the popular standards.
It's general MIDI compliant.
Of course,
it supports standard MIDI files.
It's compatible with the
Roland's GS specification
for instrument libraries.
We're very happy about this one.
It supports the brand new downloadable
sample specification called DLS-2.
It's also compatible with Soundfont 2.
DLS-2 is an interesting format
because it's actually part
of the MPEG-4 specification,
which we'll be talking a little
bit more about later today.
It's truly a professional quality
synthesizer and when you combine
it with the ultra-low latency
that's available in Mac OS X,
it's a fantastic technology
and it's going to be a
fantastic boon for customers.
And I think there are some
tremendous opportunities in
here for you as developers.
We watched for years and years
people struggling to create
software-based instructional products
on Macintosh and Windows for that
matter that provided an appropriate
and adequate level of keyboard
responsiveness and sound quality.
And it really wasn't
possible until today.
With the new synthesizer,
I think you'll be very
impressed and I'd like to,
again, go to the demos and give you
a little bit of a sample.
Now you saw, before you start this, Jim,
let me say a couple more things.
You saw Avi in his keynote
do a demonstration that
shows off the low latency,
the very responsiveness of the keyboard
and shows how in Mac OS X you're
able to continue to perform with
the low latency at the same time
that you're doing other things in
the OS and it doesn't disturb things.
Today I want to show you what some
of the power of the extensibility of
the sound library infrastructure is.
So Jim, go ahead.
The way that people put those things
together is you've got a music authoring
package to do the basic MIDI authoring,
and then they work with the
samplers to create a custom set of
sounds that you can then plug into
QuickTime and package all up together
and create a very unique sound.
This is not the sort of sound you'd
expect from a standard MIDI file.
If you want to learn more about the
audio services in QuickTime 5 and in 10,
here's three sessions you can go to,
some later today and some on Friday,
or tomorrow and some on Friday.
And then to learn more about
VR and how that's done,
some of the other interactive
aspects of QuickTime,
come to the session later today.
So DV.
As you know,
DV is a very important format for Apple.
DV is the video format that's
at the foundation of the new
generation of digital camcorders.
DV plus FireWire have enabled
this fantastic convergence
between the consumer electronics
industry and the computer industry
in the area of applications
like iMovie and Final Cut Pro.
For the first time,
they're bringing professional
quality at price points that
are accessible to consumers.
We've done tremendous enhancements
to DV and QuickTime 5.
We've made dramatic improvements in the
speed of compression and decompression.
We've taken advantage of all
the tricks available to us
on Macintosh to support this.
We've also taken a whole other
look at the detailed math in the
system and we've provided a much
higher level of accuracy and color
fidelity over multiple generations.
I think you'll be very pleased with that.
QuickTime has supported software
effects for a number of years now,
and with QuickTime 5,
I'm very pleased to be able
to say that we now can support
hardware-accelerated real-time effects.
This is kind of the meat and
potatoes of the pro video world.
And now with QuickTime 5,
applications like Final Cut Pro,
Adobe Premiere,
you can support hardware-based real-time
effects without having to leave the
QuickTime authoring environment.
This is a very cool one.
You can learn a lot more about
these details at the professional
video session later today.
Amen.
MPEG-1.
This is another technology
that we've supported in
QuickTime for a number of years.
It's been Mac only until now.
MPEG-1 is a foundation technology
for the video CD standard.
It's also a de facto standard for a
wide variety of intranet type streaming.
Enterprise streaming in the range
of say 500 kilobits up to maybe
one and a half megabits per second.
Very popular format.
Today with QuickTime 5 we can now
stream these industry standard formats
into QuickTime on both Mac and Windows.
Very exciting.
The streaming itself conforms to the
Internet Engineering Task Force standard
protocols.
Again, it's all standards-based stuff.
And we support pretty much
all of the MPEG-1 formats
you'd expect us to support.
Very cool.
Now, as you know,
QuickTime has always been a
very extensible architecture.
This is one of these things we've talked
about for years and years and years.
There are lots of different
ways that you as developers
can plug into the architecture,
extend the functionality of QuickTime.
But one of the big problems
that we've had is that it's been
virtually impossible as a small
developer to be able to come
up with a groovy new component,
some innovative technology,
and then get it distributed
to customers around the world.
In the age of the Internet,
it's virtually impossible.
You can't get the attention of the
content publishers if you've got a
new compression format without the
capacity to distribute on a broad scale
and without being able to convince them
that you've got that taken care of.
They just won't talk to you.
With QuickTime 5,
we've introduced some new technology
that allows us to solve this problem.
When the system goes out,
the customer is surfing the web,
whatever,
they come across a movie that contains
some content that's not a part of
the standard QuickTime software set.
We can automatically detect this.
And we can go back and check on a central
server that we keep here at Apple and
determine if we've got some additional
software that could be your software.
And then on demand,
we can install this and
automatically continue.
So the customer gets a fairly
seamless experience as they surf the
web and you have a chance to be able
to distribute your technology far
and wide more effectively than ever.
So far, we've got three companies
participating in this program.
Be here, they do a sort of interesting,
innovative 360-degree
panoramic video technology.
On to, they have a great,
great codec for the
internet and elsewhere.
And then Pulse,
who make interesting 3D interactive 3Ds.
3D scalable web streamable technology.
Very cool.
This is a plea to you.
We would like to get more
components into this program.
We've talked to dozens and
dozens of developers who've been
doing development in this area.
We would love to talk to you again
and get you signed up in the program.
You can go to this website and get a
lot more information about the program.
I think you'll like it.
XML.
So with QuickTime 5,
QuickTime is going to
start to support XML.
XML is a very important standard
in the internet these days.
It's a great way to start
to describe data sets,
complex interactions
between clients and servers.
We've added rudimentary support
in QuickTime for XML and we've
provided a number of helper
routines that you can take advantage
of in parsing the XML files.
This can be a complicated process.
We're going to take
that work over for you.
And what happens is that
when QuickTime goes out,
it's able to detect the presence of XML.
We start to import it and then
based upon typing information
that's built into the XML files,
we can detect which components are
required to be able to process the XML.
So we will search through the file
based upon the various MIME types
that will be specified in the file.
We can invoke customized importers
and those importers can come in and
then they can process the data that's
in the XML stream and do pretty much
anything you want with QuickTime.
And this is a very powerful technology
for creating a variety of applications,
client server applications.
My personal favorite is the
template-driven authoring.
Very powerful technique employed
on a server but also very
interesting from the client.
Let's take a look at a demo of that.
So what we have here is,
why don't we go back and
first start with the pictures.
So we've got a set of photographs here.
These were taken during one member of the
team's sort of hijinks from an airplane.
And what I want to do-- this is
my favorite demo of all time.
I love taking slideshows and
putting music to them and making
that not be a big pain in the neck.
So we've got 16 slides here.
We've got some music.
And then we've got this little XML file.
Why don't you open that up?
Very simple structure.
We define this language.
You can define it any way you want.
You've got the elements and
attributes that are central to XML,
basically describing a
sequencing of images,
durations for the images,
transition effect between images,
and then a music segment to go with that.
So we take this and we can open
this up inside of QuickTime.
We wrote a little bit of
code for the importer.
Go ahead.
The importer is invoked, it runs,
it builds the movie.
And here you go, no sweat.
I think he's a very smart guy.
This is actually a series of
photographs of a guy named Maynard
Hanley who works on our team.
He's one of the smartest guys around.
He's written most of the
MPEG code that we have today.
Really brilliant guy.
is foolish in his personal life, however.
So let's talk about the
improvements we made to streaming.
I said we introduced
streaming in QuickTime 4.
We've made a lot of enhancements
over the last couple of years.
Let's talk about what's
new in QuickTime 5.
The big one, you heard Avi talk about it,
skip protection.
Skip protection is actually
A coordinated technology that works
between the client and the server
and it uses three basic techniques
for improving the overall quality of
service of the streaming experience.
The first technology is the
ability to retransmit lost packets.
As you know, when you're streaming
things over the internet,
especially when you're using
unreliable transport such as UDP,
packets will get lost.
When the client observes that
there are packets being lost,
it has the ability to obtain
retransmitted packets,
fill in the holes.
In addition,
when the server notices that the
network is beginning to be congested,
it has the ability to dynamically scale
the stream in order to cut down on
the congestion that's being produced
by the server itself and to maximize
the likelihood that the stream will
fit through the available bandwidth.
And then the last technology that's
involved in skip detection is an
aggressive buffering of the media.
Basically,
there are times when the network
bandwidth is less than you want,
and we've applied the first
two techniques to improve
the experience there.
There are other times when the network
bandwidth exceeds the necessary bandwidth
for the media that you're trying to play,
and we take advantage of that opportunity
to buffer more data into the client,
thereby enabling you to break the cable
and life goes on very nicely for a while.
So we've had the ability to
broadcast live streams in QuickTime,
again since QuickTime 4,
but this has not been a technology that's
been available to you as developers.
With QuickTime 5,
we're introducing public APIs that
will allow you to write your
own broadcasting applications.
It's a very flexible architecture.
It allows you to introduce
your own sources.
It doesn't have to be a video source.
You can write plug-ins to
access any kind of input source,
audio, video, otherwise.
We also added the capability
for live broadcast to be able
to support the transport over
reliable protocols like TCP.
This is very important because if
you're trying to set up a live webcast,
unless you are willing
to go to the trouble of
obtaining dedicated lines,
leased ISDN lines or otherwise,
what you will often experience
is the process of getting from
your webcast site to the streaming
server introduces packet loss.
That's going to be replicated, you know,
we can have 100% replication
through the rest of the
infrastructure of the Internet,
but if you're already at 95% packet loss
by the time you get to the entry server,
you're not going to be
able to overcome that.
This technique allows us to guarantee
100% packet fidelity up to the
server if you need to use that.
The APIs are available on Mac OS.
Of course, if you're a Windows developer,
there's nothing that keeps you from going
out and developing your own broadcast
capability because all of streaming
is built on open standards after all.
So you can go out and you can
write the software if you need
to be in a Windows environment.
You can learn a lot more about
the details of the live streaming
capabilities of QuickTime 5
at the session later today.
today.
We added support for
another sort of streaming,
Shoutcast, very popular format.
We've supported MP3 for a long time now.
With Shoutcast support,
what you basically have is you've got
MP3 streaming over an HTTP protocol.
And we've added support for that.
You can use it to integrate internet
radio stations into your presentations.
I think the most interesting thing about
this in the context of QuickTime is not
so much that we can handle the streams,
we're not trying to be a replacement
for iTunes or be your radio player.
That's not what we're up to here.
But it's that you can take these
kinds of streams and you can integrate
them with other QuickTime content.
You can apply all the other powerful
interactivity techniques around Shoutcast
streams to provide just a much more
interesting experience for customers.
Let's talk about the
streaming server for a minute.
So I told you we had a lot
of downloads of the server,
over 150,000 downloads.
We've had more than 250 companies
license the source code.
Some of the biggest names in the
server business are working with
the QuickTime streaming server.
This project really opened our eyes
up to the power of open standards.
When we made this source code available
to companies around the world,
they were beating a path to our door.
We've been amazed at the number of
companies who are coming to work
with us around QuickTime because
of this server project.
It's been great.
For the version 3 of
the streaming server,
we've added several new features that
will be helpful for people who are
working at the server end of things.
There's a very easy to use web-based
server administration capability now so
you can administer the server no matter
where you are if you've got web access.
We've improved the security
of streams so that when you're
streaming over the live internet,
your content will be protected between
the source and the destination.
We support the reliable delivery
technology that I was just referring
to in the live broadcast capability.
We've made improvements to the
support for caching proxy servers.
And of course we work with
the skip protection technology
we were describing earlier,
streaming server version 3.
There are a couple of sessions
to allow you to learn about the
basics of the server as well as how
to extend the server on Thursday.
So now let's shift gears and
talk about the interactive
capabilities of QuickTime.
QuickTime has a very,
very rich infrastructure and, you know,
almost no matter what your
knowledge base is as a content
publisher or a software developer,
we've probably got a technology in here
that's going to allow you to be able to
be comfortable working with QuickTime.
The first thing I want to talk
about is Flash 4 for Macromedia.
We have integrated
Flash 4 into the system.
It brings a number of key capabilities.
Flash is very powerful for
web-based graphic animations.
It's great for some lightweight
interactivity capabilities.
With Flash 4,
they've also provided very powerful
techniques for manipulating
text in forms and doing
client-server kinds of interactions.
that you've not been able to do before.
We've also taken the trouble not just
to build Flash 4 into the system.
Again,
the goal here is not to replace the
Flash player in your web browser.
The goal is to identify opportunities
to leverage QuickTime plus Flash to
do things that you couldn't do
with the two technologies alone.
So we've built a number of new
capabilities into QuickTime that directly
interface to the new features in Flash 4.
I'd like to show you a demo
of a couple of those things.
One of the things that's very
interesting if you want to start
to talk about doing more elaborate,
more interesting presentations of media
in the internet is the idea of how
do you put these interfaces together.
A lot of places you'll go and you'll
look at the web page and they'll reserve
this column over here for part of the
interface and they'll create other
controls over here on the web page.
And they basically end up
taking your full screen display
and turning it into a tiny,
tiny video space.
We think that this is the
wrong way to approach things.
And we've got some technologies
in QuickTime with Flash that
allow you to do a much,
much better job of this.
So Jim, why don't you bring up the movie.
So what we've got here is we've got an
interface that's the interactive elements
are built with Flash and it's sitting
over the top of a QuickTime interface.
And Mr.
Schaffer,
would you prefer window or aisle?
So go ahead and let it play.
Middle.
Why don't you close
the menu for a second.
Middle.
So when you don't want
to see the interface,
you can make it go away.
You've got the effect of the
whole display area for your video.
When you want to bring the controls in,
you can do that.
Middle.
So when you bring the controls in,
just go over to the menu.
It pulls in the controls.
They're translucent so you
can still see the video.
You can still tell what's going on.
We think the overall effect
is a very powerful effect.
We think this is kind of the wave
of the future for interfaces.
Thanks, Jim.
That's good.
So that's Flash 4.
Now, the foundation for interactivity
in QuickTime is built upon this
concept we call Wired Movies.
Basically,
QuickTime's got a virtual machine
like you'd expect in any kind
of interactive environment.
And we've got a series of media
objects in QuickTime that support
various properties and methods
for communicating between them,
and we have an elaborate event
model for handling user events.
For QuickTime 5,
we've added over 100 new Wired
behaviors and properties to the system
across a whole range of media types.
We've also enabled a new type of
interaction called QT List Actions,
which are XML-based transactions that
can go on between clients and servers.
So QuickTime is now beginning
to support servers in a more
integral way than we have before.
One of the most exciting features
that I see in QuickTime 5 is
something we call media skins.
Sometimes we refer to it
as customized interfaces.
The idea here is not that
you're skinning the player.
Player skins are like
something that end users do.
They change the behavior,
they change the look of their players.
They don't change the behavior.
It's all the same controls
that you would normally see.
They just change the appearance.
We think that, again, that's a fine idea,
but we don't think that's
the most powerful concept.
We wanted to create an ability for
content publishers to easily alter
the appearance of their media and wrap
their media in attractive containers
that allow you to do great branding of
your content or to integrate with the
interactive capabilities of QuickTime in
new ways that are visually stunning.
So let's take a look at
a couple demos of that.
So this first demo we'll look at
comes from a very creative artist,
developer named Michael Schaaff,
Small Hands Software.
Why don't you fire it up.
This is a QuickTime VR panorama
in an interactive skin.
So it's a non-rectangular window.
As you see he's able to move around.
He's using Live Stage Pro to create
the interactivity elements here.
And it's all wired up and very cool.
You can't do this with
other software products.
So why don't we take a
look at the second one.
The second one is a
very simple treatment.
This is something that Apple's used
for its own branding of Mac.com.
and Liquidator 5.
Larry Apparee.
Optimistic@mac.com.
Squirrel82.
They're very elaborate to look at,
they're very beautiful, very,
very simple to create.
Just a couple of minutes in Photoshop,
we've got Apple scripts that help you
assemble all the elements together.
You can do this,
anybody can do these things.
We're going to see these
all over the web shortly.
You're going to learn about the
details of how these are created at
the interactive session later today.
There's also great support for Java.
If you're a Java developer
and you care about QuickTime,
there is great,
great support in QuickTime for
Java and in Java for QuickTime.
With Mac OS X,
we've enhanced this even further.
And with QuickTime 5,
we've made the full capabilities of
the new feature set in QuickTime 5
available to Java programmers.
And you can learn more about
that at the session tomorrow.
So let's talk a little bit
about QuickTime and Mac OS X.
You've heard people talking about
the power and flexibility of Unix
and the simplicity of Macintosh.
I'd like to add one more element to this,
and this is the power of the
QuickTime creation and publishing
integrated with these other two elements.
This has not been done before in such
an open and powerful environment.
And we've got a little demo that we put
together to kind of give you a hint,
sort of a quick glimpse of what
might be possible in this area.
I think it's going to be a really,
really big deal.
Thank you.
We call it proxy editing.
And so what we've got set up
here is over on Jim's right,
he's got a titanium power
book that's running Mac OS X.
He's going to be using
an Apache web server,
he's PHP scripts.
We need the Mac OS 9, machine 8, please,
on the screens.
So Jim's got a Mac OS X-based server
running on his Titanium PowerBook.
Over here on the client,
we've just got a web page that we've
set up to interact with the server.
And what we're going to
do is we're going to,
go ahead, first step.
We're looking, basically just looking at
what's available on the server.
So Jim's going to select
one of these videos.
On the server,
what we've got is very high
resolution versions of the videos.
Jim's going to pull down a very
low resolution copy of the video,
so it comes down very quickly.
He's going to perform a
simple edit on the video.
So he trims a little piece out of it.
He's going to save that locally.
He's just saving a reference movie,
so it's a very tiny movie.
We're then going to push
that back up to the server.
So now what's happening is he
sent it back up to the server.
The server has now invoked a whole
bunch of new processes that are running,
that are integrating the-- What's
happened is the server actually went and
did the edit on the high res content.
It's produced a number of different
formats that we can then view.
So we've got a web page
version of a higher res output.
And then we also, at the same time,
produced a version that can
stream live to you over the web.
All driven by the server.
So the client's a very
unsophisticated client.
The server's got all
this power built into it.
I think this is going to be a technology
direction that you're going to see
a lot of developers moving into.
There's some tremendous opportunities
with all the power of the
infrastructure of Mac OS X combined
with all the authoring and
publishing power of QuickTime.
Thanks.
So that's QuickTime 5 and the
QuickTime Streaming Server 3.
I encourage you to please go take a look.
There's a lot of stuff in there.
We've been barely able to
scratch the surface of the
new features in QuickTime 5.
I'd like to do a segue
now to a whole new topic.
I think that the industry is at a
real crossroads here and you don't
have to have lived through the
last year to be able to tell that,
but for those of us who have going
through the difficulties and the trials
and tribulations of the dot-com meltdown,
I think you're all well versed in the
pain and suffering that it's created.
Now,
We in the streaming media
world are not immune to this.
There are real problems in our industry.
The production costs associated
with streaming media are exorbitant,
way too high.
The cost of distributing your
media is incredibly high.
It does not scale.
If you want to do a webcast
to millions of people,
you are going to,
if you can make it work at all,
you're going to be talking about major,
major expenditures.
As you know,
every year the media companies
come out with new players,
and new formats, and new codecs.
This kind of churn just
takes these other costs,
which are inherent in the
technologies we have today,
and multiplies those by N.
It's quite a dramatic effect.
As a content publisher,
you're constantly struggling,
how do I know what formats to publish in?
How can I reach the largest
number of people possible?
Because of the software churn,
the lack of compatibility
from one version to the next,
that you see in many of the players,
the customer is basically cut
off from the content publisher.
When the proposition for the customer is,
I've got to download a new piece of
software to be able to watch this media,
but you're losing customers.
You're going to lose those
customers every single time.
And of course,
the fact that we've got all these
different formats vying in the
big food fight of streaming media,
that means that the broadcast,
the compatibility isn't
going to be there.
It's a bad experience for customers,
it's a bad experience for publishers.
I believe that the proprietary
technologies that we've been
building on are the problem.
It's a big part of the problem.
And I think that there
are some answers to this.
So I want to talk about this.
You will hear people talk about
standards as if it's the problem.
Standards impede innovation.
The whole process of developing a
standard is so slow and cumbersome.
It's the worst of design by committee.
The standards take so long to complete
that by the time they're released,
the technologies involved
are already obsolete.
And of course,
the standards can't possibly
be optimizing for high quality
because they're late to market,
they're designed by committee.
Is this true?
Could this possibly be true?
I don't think so.
I don't think this is
anything like the truth.
I think this is wishful thinking
that serves the purposes and the
interests of certain companies,
but it is not the truth.
The truth of the matter is
that standards build markets.
The TV industry would not be
possible without standards.
The telecommunications industry is
premised on a standards-based approach.
The consumer electronics industry
could not achieve the compatibility
that customers demand and expect
from one generation of product to the
next without the help of standards.
And of course,
the Internet wouldn't exist
at all without standards.
Standards actually solve problems.
They solve the problems we need to solve.
The discipline of a
standard helps to ensure,
helps to maximize the likelihood of
compatibility over the long haul.
Standards encourage and support the
notion of interoperable implementations,
interoperable media,
interoperable software between vendors.
And standards also help
to minimize a dangerous
over-reliance on a single vendor.
The fact of the matter
is that no one company,
no matter how large the company,
can service all the
needs of the marketplace.
And there's no way that a single
implementation can service all
the needs of every customer.
The standards enable customers,
developers to get together,
craft solutions that are right for them,
and create markets and grow businesses.
Standards actually fuel innovation.
We're seeing this right now.
It's playing out in our industry today.
Music players, cameras, camcorders.
The music player is a
spin-off of the MP3 standard.
It wouldn't happen without the MP3
standard becoming so important.
Cameras, JPEG.
I mean, it's,
I guess it's pretty obvious here.
These are very important technologies.
Camcorders, of course, DV, FireWire.
The technologies that allow these
portable devices to connect to the PC,
USB and FireWire, all standards.
And they have fueled, you know,
this huge, huge movement at
Apple around the digital hub.
New optical disc capabilities.
Again, completely standards-based,
driving whole new models
for authoring content,
totally revitalizing the
industry for movie distribution.
Couldn't happen without standards.
And as we look forward,
we're going to see new standards
that are going to be bringing
web access to new kinds of
devices that consumers will have.
And I guarantee you,
this will change the way
that the internet looks.
It's going to change the way that
people interact with the internet,
and it's going to change the
way that content publishers
start to publish their content.
Very exciting.
Simple case in point.
MPEG-2.
Well,
it was standardized way back in 1994.
So clearly, it must be irrelevant.
It didn't use the most aggressive
compression algorithm that was possible.
I mean, after all,
they were concerned about making
sure that it would be able to be
implemented in hardware at the time.
Nevertheless,
what we see over the last couple of years
is not the momentum of MPEG-2 going down.
Instead, we're seeing explosive growth
around the technology of MPEG-2.
Digital satellite, terrestrial cable,
DVD, HDTV.
HDTV, which is the next
generation of television,
is built on MPEG-2.
This seven-year-old standard.
It's really quite remarkable.
The thing that's critical to notice
in all of this is that the quality of
the media that is being produced today
in MPEG-2 is better than ever before.
This happens because
We're not talking about 50 or even
100 engineers working on a piece
of technology to make it better.
We're talking about hundreds
of companies with thousands of
engineers looking at the software,
looking at the standard and
looking for ways that they
can improve the technology.
The standard defines the bitstream.
It doesn't define what the
encoder is supposed to look like.
decoder is supposed to do.
It's about the bitstream.
And the innovative work of the
thousands of engineers who can work
on the standards is very powerful.
It's something to be reckoned with.
Likewise,
the costs of doing MPEG-2 have gone
down and down and down over the years.
As these thousands of engineers and
hundreds of companies are working
together to iterate on the designs
and to solve the problems of industry,
they're at the same time working on
solutions to the problems of cost.
This is something that can be
applied to all of the industry.
This is the work that we do.
QuickTime has paid attention
to MPEG in the past.
Apple's made a huge investment in
MPEG-2 with our line of DVD products.
We announced about a month ago
that we're going to be supporting
MPEG-2 inside of QuickTime.
And we have a demo here of our own MPEG-2
technology sitting on top of QuickTime 5.
This isn't shipping yet,
but we wanted to give you a glimpse
of what is possible and let you know
and reassure you that this is going
to happen in QuickTime as well.
Thank you.
So, great.
So, MPEG is a very important standard.
We're going to be supporting
this in QuickTime 5.
That file, you can put that on a DVD.
It's the same media.
There's another very important
standard which is just now coming
to the market called MPEG-4.
Apple was involved,
has been involved with
MPEG-4 for a number of years.
As you probably know,
the file format for MPEG-4 is
based upon QuickTime's file format.
We think this is going to be an
incredibly important revolution
for the realm of streaming media.
Let's talk a little bit
about what MPEG-4 really is,
because there are some
significant misconceptions in
the marketplace about this.
I think a lot of people see
MPEG-4 as being a better codec,
a better video codec.
And it is a better video codec,
there's no doubt about that.
But it's actually a complete architecture
for doing multimedia systems.
It incorporates all the data storage
and transport that you'd expect.
It incorporates intellectual
property management features.
It provides a rich support for audio,
video and other media types.
It provides an interactive,
interactivity framework
built around Java.
It provides all the synchronization.
And it provides the overall,
overarching compositional infrastructure
so that you can organize media
elements into a presentation.
It's a very complex standard.
There are a lot of people behind MPEG-4.
Apple recently had a chance to join,
as a founding member,
the Internet Streaming Media Alliance.
This is an industry organization
that we're putting together to
help promote the MPEG-4 standard,
but also to help to drive,
as soon as possible,
as quickly as possible,
interoperable implementations of
MPEG-4 so that you as a developer
don't have to go to a single vendor
for their implementation of MPEG-4.
You can look at a whole
host of companies.
And likewise, as a content publisher,
you'll have a wide variety of
choices for technology providers
as you publish to MPEG-4.
We are looking for new members,
so if you're interested in MPEG-4,
I strongly encourage you to go take
a look at the website at isma.tv.
It's a great organization.
We're making tremendous progress
in the area of interoperability,
and I think you'll like
what's happening there.
Now, this is not just a
computer industry endeavor.
Like I said,
standards aren't restricted in their use.
Standards can be applied anywhere
anybody thinks they make sense.
And one of the most interesting uses
of MPEG-4 that's coming along is in the
area of mobile telephone technology.
The next generation
telephones are called 3G,
and they're beginning to be
deployed around the world.
The United States is
behind on this effort,
but we'll catch up.
These next generation telephones
are really remarkable.
They bring very high bandwidth
internet connections,
and they provide a much richer set of
functionality in the phone than you
might have ever been able to have before.
There's a standards body associated
with this work called 3GPP,
Third Generation Partner Project,
and there's an industry forum
that goes along with this called
the Wireless Multimedia Forum.
A lot of big-name companies
from the industry are
participants in these endeavors:
the NTT Docomos, the Nokias,
big companies.
They've chosen MPEG-4 as the basis
for their standard going forward.
This is going to happen.
You look at JPEG 2000,
it's the next generation
of JPEG and Motion JPEG.
They're basing their work on this.
They're basing their
file format on MPEG-4,
which by the way is a great thing,
because that means both the phone
world and the next generation
imaging world will be built on
an infrastructure that's very,
very similar to QuickTime.
Very cool.
So what's Apple up to?
Well, first of all, as I said,
we're going to put
MPEG-2 into the system.
We're also going to build
MPEG-4 into QuickTime.
MPEG-4 is going to be a first-class
citizen inside of QuickTime.
Initially,
we're going to focus on the basic core
audio/video streaming capabilities.
We want to make sure that we've got the
best audio and video codecs available.
And we want to make sure
that the streaming transport
technology works fantastically.
And again, as the industry is trying
to get off the ground,
we felt that it was most important
to go for sort of the broad
support of the basic functionality,
get that up,
prove to the industry the possibility of
interoperability in a realm where people,
frankly, have doubts.
We're positive this is going to work and
we're going to focus on that part first.
And you'll be able to do
pure MPEG-4 in QuickTime,
but of course, it is QuickTime.
It's the ultimate in
integration technologies.
You'll be able to combine MPEG-4
with other QuickTime media to create
presentations like we've seen with the
skins or other interactive capabilities.
Very neat.
We will announce availability of
shipping products later this year,
but stay tuned.
It's going to be very exciting.
Now I'd like to give you a brief
demo of our MPEG-4 technology.
Jim, why don't you fire it up?
So this is a one megabit stream.
Very high quality.
Anybody who tells you that MPEG-4 is
not a good codec has a different agenda.
So if you want to learn
more about MPEG-4,
believe it or not,
you can hear more about it in the
live streaming session later today.
So, at this time,
I have been notified that the
team put together a little
public service announcement.
They asked me to show this to you.
is the director of the Web Publishing and
Marketing Department at the University of
with a disturbing disregard
for careful planning.
But this industrious engineer
has discovered the fun and
gratifying results that come with
strict adherence to standards.
Civil Discourse.
Enjoy enriching presentations
guaranteed to thrill,
excite, and inspire.
Regular delivery of exciting
reading material with
easy-to-remember standards names,
too.
of standards.
After all,
it was standards that brought us cheap,
reliable electricity.
Oh, crap.
I can't work like this.
Somebody call the governor.
Get out of my way.
Before we finish, just a couple of
thoughts to wrap up with.
So, first of all,
I want you to walk away with the message,
Apple is embracing open standards.
Everything we're doing at Apple is
about open standards this day.
You heard a lot about it in Avi's talk.
You've heard a lot about it today.
Very, very important.
I'd like to invite all of
you to come with us and help
make MPEG-4 a big success.
QuickTime 5, it's available now.
Go take a look.
There's a lot of features in there.
in there, love to have your help
making things better.
And of course, as always,
let us know what you think.
We are building these technologies
so your products can thrive.
We don't do this for
our own gratification.
This is an important area.
You are our customers.
Tell us what you think.
Tomorrow afternoon we'll
have a feedback form.
They're usually pretty fun.
Come bring your rotten fruit, whatever.
Let us know what you think.
We've got a big event
coming up this fall.
We have had QuickTime live
conferences in the past.
They've been very,
very successful and I have to
tell you they are a lot of fun.
We have a special program this
year for developers and we'd
love to have you participate.
It's at the Beverly Hills Hilton.
It's a great venue and it's a lot of fun.
You're going to meet a lot of
people from the QuickTime community.
It's a great, great experience.
Please come.
If you have questions about
today's presentation or other
questions about QuickTime,
Jeff Lowe is your guy.
Jeff works in our developer
relations group and he will
answer all your questions.
If he can't, he will get you to the
right people who can.
Thank you very much.
Appreciate your patience.
Have a good conference.